CHEATSHEET.md, before:

# Cheat Sheet for 32-bit x86 Shellcode

## man 2 syscall
### SYS\_xxx Definitions
- ```#include <sys/syscall.h>```
### Calling Conventions and ABI for i386
- **int $0x80** instruction 
- **eax** syscall number
- **eax** retval
- **arguments 1-6** - ebx, ecx, edx, esi, edi, ebp

## Syscall Numbers

### Finding Them 
- ```cat /usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/asm/unistd_32.h | grep bind```

### Common Ones in x86
| #  | syscall      |
|--: | ----------   |
|   1| exit         |
|   3| read         |
|   4| write        |
|  11| execve       |
|  63| dup2         |
| 102| socketcall   |
| 359| socket       |
| 360| socketpair   |
| 361| bind         |
| 362| connect      |
| 363| listen       |
| 364| accept4      |

## Useful Constants 

### Constants */usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/bits/socket.h*
| # | MACRO       | MACRO      | MACRO    |
|--:| ---------   | ---------- | -------  |
| 0 |  PF\_UNSPEC | AF\_UNSPEC |          |
| 1 |  PF\_LOCAL  | PF\_UNIX   | AF\_UNIX |
| 2 |  PF\_INET   | AF\_INET   |          |
| 10|  PF\_INET6  | AF\_INET6  |          |

## Constants in */usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/bits/socket_type.h*
| # | MACRO       |
|--:| ---------   |
| 1 | SOCK\_STREAM|
| 2 | SOCK\_DGRAM |

## Constants in */usr/include/netinet/in.h*
| MACRO       | Definition                |
| --------    | -------------             |
| INADDR\_ANY | ((in\_addr\_t) 0x00000000)|

Commit message:

added libc notes from SLAE32 video 021

CHEATSHEET.md, after:

# Cheat Sheet for 32-bit x86 Shellcode

## man 2 syscall
### SYS\_xxx Definitions
- ```#include <sys/syscall.h>```
### Calling Conventions and ABI for i386
- **int $0x80** instruction 
- **eax** syscall number
- **eax** retval
- **arguments 1-6** - ebx, ecx, edx, esi, edi, ebp
### Libc Instead of Syscalls
- declare ```extern printf``` (or whatever functions you want) 
- ```main``` instead of ```_start```
- push arguments onto stack in *reverse* order
- ```CALL printf```
- align the stack after function call, e.g. ```add esp, 0x4```
- link with **gcc** instead of **ld**

## Syscall Numbers

### Finding Them 
- ```cat /usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/asm/unistd_32.h | grep bind```

### Common Ones in x86
| #  | syscall      |
|--: | ----------   |
|   1| exit         |
|   3| read         |
|   4| write        |
|  11| execve       |
|  63| dup2         |
| 102| socketcall   |
| 359| socket       |
| 360| socketpair   |
| 361| bind         |
| 362| connect      |
| 363| listen       |
| 364| accept4      |

## Useful Constants 

### Constants */usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/bits/socket.h*
| # | MACRO       | MACRO      | MACRO    |
|--:| ---------   | ---------- | -------  |
| 0 |  PF\_UNSPEC | AF\_UNSPEC |          |
| 1 |  PF\_LOCAL  | PF\_UNIX   | AF\_UNIX |
| 2 |  PF\_INET   | AF\_INET   |          |
| 10|  PF\_INET6  | AF\_INET6  |          |

## Constants in */usr/include/i386-linux-gnu/bits/socket_type.h*
| # | MACRO       |
|--:| ---------   |
| 1 | SOCK\_STREAM|
| 2 | SOCK\_DGRAM |

## Constants in */usr/include/netinet/in.h*
| MACRO       | Definition                |
| --------    | -------------             |
| INADDR\_ANY | ((in\_addr\_t) 0x00000000)|
